чет, 25 мај 17:28:01 CEST 2017
 
 
Object and Class in Java


In this page, we will learn about java objects and classes. In object-oriented programming technique, we design a program using objects and classes.

Object is the physical as well as logical entity whereas class is the logical entity only. 

Object in Java

An entity that has state and behavior is known as an object e.g. chair, bike, marker, pen, table, car etc. It can be physical or logical (tangible and intangible). The example of intangible object is banking system.

An object has three characteristics:

    state: represents data (value) of an object.
    behavior: represents the behavior (functionality) of an object such as deposit, withdraw etc.
    identity: Object identity is typically implemented via a unique ID. The value of the ID is not visible to the external user. But, it is used internally by the JVM to identify each object uniquely.

For Example: Pen is an object. Its name is Reynolds, color is white etc. known as its state. It is used to write, so writing is its behavior.

Object is an instance of a class. Class is a template or blueprint from which objects are created. So object is the instance(result) of a class.

Object Definitions:
    Object is a real world entity.
    Object is a run time entity.
    Object is an entity which has state and behavior.
    Object is an instance of a class.




Class in Java

A class is a group of objects which have common properties. It is a template or blueprint from which objects are created. It is a logical entity. It can't be physical.

A class in Java can contain:

    fields
    methods
    constructors
    blocks
    nested class and interface

Syntax to declare a class:

    class <class_name>{  
        field;  
        method;  
    } 



Instance variable in Java

A variable which is created inside the class but outside the method, is known as instance variable. Instance variable doesn't get memory at compile time. It gets memory at run time when object(instance) is created. That is why, it is known as instance variable.
Method in Java

In java, a method is like function i.e. used to expose behavior of an object.
Advantage of Method

    Code Reusability
    Code Optimization



new keyword in Java

The new keyword is used to allocate memory at run time. All objects get memory in Heap memory area.
Object and Class Example: main within class

In this example, we have created a Student class that have two data members id and name. We are creating the object of the Student class by new keyword and printing the objects value.

Here, we are creating main() method inside the class.

File: Student.java

    class Student{  
     int id;//field or data member or instance variable  
     String name;  
      
     public static void main(String args[]){  
      Student s1=new Student();//creating an object of Student  
      System.out.println(s1.id);//accessing member through reference variable  
      System.out.println(s1.name);  
     }  
    }  
